README.md, before:

Django S3 File Upload Server
===================
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-server.svg?token=k7ApnEQbpXLoWVm5Bc9o&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-server)

Upload files from the browser to S3 - server side implementation

For the client side implementation, see [github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client](https://github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client)

## Getting Started

### Installation

Add the following to `requirement.txt`

    git+git://github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-server.git


Add the following to your `settings.py`

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        's3_file_uploads',
        ...
    )

    ...

    # S3
    AWS_BUCKET_NAME = env('S3_BUCKET_NAME')
    AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME = AWS_BUCKET_NAME
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = env('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID')
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = env('AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY')

**Please make sure to**
  - **set a `MAX_FILE_UPLOAD_SIZE` in `settings.py`.**
  - **run migrations to create the `UploadedFile` table in your database.**

### Setup environment variables

You will need to create an AWS bucket and set the following env variables

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
S3_BUCKET_NAME
```

## Usage
The flow to be able to upload files from the browser straight to AWS is as follows.
![Flow S3 file uploads](images/flow-s3-file-uploads.png)

This repo will give you access to some useful enpoints.
To make these endpoints available, add the following to the `urlpatterns`
```
  url(r'^s3-file-uploads/', view=include('s3_file_uploads.urls'))
```
This will give you access to
  - POST `/s3-file-uploads/` for getting a url to upload files to AWS to
  - POST `/s3-file-uploads/<file_id>/complete/` for marking an upload as complete
  - GET `/s3-file-uploads/<file_id>/` for getting an AWS endpoint to download files from

Hitting these endpoints will `create`, `update` and `retrieve` instances of `UploadedFile` under the hood.

For an abstraction of uploading a file from the browser straight to S3, see [github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client](https://github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client)

## Examples
Now that we have the table `UploadedFile` available to us, which stores an `id`, `file_key`, `filename` and `file_upload_state`, we might want to link this to a model in our project as follows.

```
from django.db import models
from s3_file_uploads.models import UploadedFile

class Llama(models.Model):
    file = models.OneToOneField(
        UploadedFile,
        on_delete=models.CASCADE
    )
```

### Downloading a file
As noted above in the list of available endpoints, we can do a GET request to`/s3-file-uploads/<file_id>/` to get the AWS endpoint to download a file from.
This endpoint is useful when the frontend knows the `file_id` and wants to retreive a single file.

We might also want to setup an endpoint to retrieve all `Llama` data and include the download url for the `file`.
Say we have an instance of `Llama` called `llama`. All we need to do is call the model method `llama.get_download_url()` or `llama.get_view_url()` which returns the S3 url including access keys where the file can be downloaded or viewed from.


## Code of conduct

For guidelines regarding the code of conduct when contributing to this repository please review [https://www.dabapps.com/open-source/code-of-conduct/](https://www.dabapps.com/open-source/code-of-conduct/)

Commit message:

Adding a note about setting up an endpoint to create/update

README.md, after:

Django S3 File Upload Server
===================
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-server.svg?token=k7ApnEQbpXLoWVm5Bc9o&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-server)

Upload files from the browser to S3 - server side implementation

For the client side implementation, see [github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client](https://github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client)

## Getting Started

### Installation

Add the following to `requirement.txt`

    git+git://github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-server.git


Add the following to your `settings.py`

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        's3_file_uploads',
        ...
    )

    ...

    # S3
    AWS_BUCKET_NAME = env('S3_BUCKET_NAME')
    AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME = AWS_BUCKET_NAME
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = env('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID')
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = env('AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY')

**Please make sure to**
  - **set a `MAX_FILE_UPLOAD_SIZE` in `settings.py`.**
  - **run migrations to create the `UploadedFile` table in your database.**

### Setup environment variables

You will need to create an AWS bucket and set the following env variables

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
S3_BUCKET_NAME
```

## Usage
The flow to be able to upload files from the browser straight to AWS is as follows.
![Flow S3 file uploads](images/flow-s3-file-uploads.png)

This repo will give you access to some useful enpoints.
To make these endpoints available, add the following to the `urlpatterns`
```
  url(r'^s3-file-uploads/', view=include('s3_file_uploads.urls'))
```
This will give you access to
  - POST `/s3-file-uploads/` for getting a url to upload files to AWS to
  - POST `/s3-file-uploads/<file_id>/complete/` for marking an upload as complete
  - GET `/s3-file-uploads/<file_id>/` for getting an AWS endpoint to download files from

Hitting these endpoints will `create`, `update` and `retrieve` instances of `UploadedFile` under the hood.

For an abstraction of uploading a file from the browser straight to S3, see [github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client](https://github.com/dabapps/django-s3-file-upload-client)

## Examples
Now that we have the table `UploadedFile` available to us, which stores an `id`, `file_key`, `filename` and `file_upload_state`, we might want to link this to a model in our project as follows.

```
from django.db import models
from s3_file_uploads.models import UploadedFile

class Llama(models.Model):
    file = models.OneToOneField(
        UploadedFile,
        on_delete=models.CASCADE
    )
```

Now we could setup some endpoints to `create/update` a `Llama` instance for example.

After a file has been uploaded to S3 by the client, the frontend will have the `file_id` and could use this
to `create/update` the `Llama` instance.

### Downloading a file
As noted above in the list of available endpoints, we can do a GET request to`/s3-file-uploads/<file_id>/` to get the AWS endpoint to download a file from.
This endpoint is useful when the frontend knows the `file_id` and wants to retreive a single file.

We might also want to setup an endpoint to retrieve all `Llama` data and include the download url for the `file`.
Say we have an instance of `Llama` called `llama`. All we need to do is call the model method `llama.get_download_url()` or `llama.get_view_url()` which returns the S3 url including access keys where the file can be downloaded or viewed from.


## Code of conduct

For guidelines regarding the code of conduct when contributing to this repository please review [https://www.dabapps.com/open-source/code-of-conduct/](https://www.dabapps.com/open-source/code-of-conduct/)
